README.md, before:

# free-protocol-project

A free and open framework for the detection, analysis and potential treatment of novel pathogens.


Developed to start an free and open scinece project using existing prior art.  Inspired by Free Software Foundation.


Summary

Currently, the world is in a pandemic caused by a novel corona virus that can cause a range of symptoms following infection.  Infected persons can present as asymptomatic to full blown acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and current patient populations indicate that around 8% of all infected patients need hospitalization and an infection is mortal to around 1.4 % of the patients.  It is estimated that this virus will have a devastating impact on humanity and the global economy.  Therefore, a rapid testing system for COVID-19 that minimizes the need for specialty equipment and training is tantamount to humanities long  term survival.  In addition, this system of testing needs to lead to additional innovation and free to modify to allow for adaption to future emergent pathogens.

Current testing approved by the World Health Organization centers around the use of real time RT-PCR or a method to detect the + RNA strand of the viral genome.  This is a highly sensitive technique that requires extra materials (TaqMan primer) along with specialized equipment and training.  To make a comparable test, a standard PCR method based on the WHO primers was developed but uses end-point determination of positive or negative which is the exact same report given by the real time RT-PCR method.  However, instead of using fluorescent detection methods in real time followed by later analysis, this method uses a simple hapten labeled primer along with biotin incorporation.  This has a two-fold effect. First, it minimizes cost while keeping the technique similar to what laboratory technicians are accustom. Second, the incorporation of biotin among with enzymatic detection methods can amplify the signal.  While RT-PCR is currently used and accepted by the WHO there are alternate techniques used for the detection of the viral proteins and patient immune response.

To detect the patient immune response, several companies have developed kits that use a standard technique of antibody detection in the patient serum. While excellent methods they often use propitiatory reagents, however,  all of these techniques are correlated to the “gold standard” of ELISA.  To decrease cost of testing, increase sensitivity and selectivity a standard protocol for COVID-19 antibodies using “off-the-shelf” reagents was developed.  As a complementary protocol, a viral protein detection ELISA was developed to detect the actual viral particle in different biofluids.  These techniques are designed to be used either qualitatively or quantitatively depending on the equipment available to the lab.  Finally these ELISA based techniques are based upon over four-decades of published science and can be easily modified and developed for new and emergent pathogens.

The patients immune response when combined with probabilistic peptide maps of the T and B cell response can be used to develop additional techniques.  After the ELISA protocols are developed it is the hope that a protein microarray or a similar technique can be developed to identify regions that stimulate patient immune response.  This immune response can then be modeled to develop novel therapies for the vaccination and treatment of COVID-19 along with emergent pathogens.  The mathematical modeling of both the infection and the immune response to aid in the correct targeting of high risk persons.  However, these techniques are with out value unless they are provided free of charge to the world.  Therefore all protocols, data, mathematical model and programs will be licensed under GPLv3 (fsf.org) or Creative Commons-Share Alike (CC-SA) for all to use, modify and develop.

Commit message:

Example of CC BY License

README.md, after:

# free-protocol-project

A free and open framework for the detection, analysis and potential treatment of novel pathogens.

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br>Copyright © Eric43 2020.  Except where otherwise specified, the text on <a href="https://github.com/Eric43/free-protocol-project">free-protocol-project</a> by Eric43 is licensed under the <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution License 4.0 (International) (CC-BY 4.0)</a>.

Developed to start an free and open science project using existing prior art.  Inspired by Free Software Foundation.


## Summary

Currently, the world is in a pandemic caused by a novel corona virus that can cause a range of symptoms following infection.  Infected persons can present as asymptomatic to full blown acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and current patient populations indicate that around 8% of all infected patients need hospitalization and an infection is mortal to around 1.4 % of the patients.  It is estimated that this virus will have a devastating impact on humanity and the global economy.  Therefore, a rapid testing system for COVID-19 that minimizes the need for specialty equipment and training is tantamount to humanities long  term survival.  In addition, this system of testing needs to lead to additional innovation and free to modify to allow for adaption to future emergent pathogens.

Current testing approved by the World Health Organization centers around the use of real time RT-PCR or a method to detect the + RNA strand of the viral genome.  This is a highly sensitive technique that requires extra materials (TaqMan primer) along with specialized equipment and training.  To make a comparable test, a standard PCR method based on the WHO primers was developed but uses end-point determination of positive or negative which is the exact same report given by the real time RT-PCR method.  However, instead of using fluorescent detection methods in real time followed by later analysis, this method uses a simple hapten labeled primer along with biotin incorporation.  This has a two-fold effect. First, it minimizes cost while keeping the technique similar to what laboratory technicians are accustom. Second, the incorporation of biotin among with enzymatic detection methods can amplify the signal.  While RT-PCR is currently used and accepted by the WHO there are alternate techniques used for the detection of the viral proteins and patient immune response.

To detect the patient immune response, several companies have developed kits that use a standard technique of antibody detection in the patient serum. While excellent methods they often use propitiatory reagents, however,  all of these techniques are correlated to the “gold standard” of ELISA.  To decrease cost of testing, increase sensitivity and selectivity a standard protocol for COVID-19 antibodies using “off-the-shelf” reagents was developed.  As a complementary protocol, a viral protein detection ELISA was developed to detect the actual viral particle in different biofluids.  These techniques are designed to be used either qualitatively or quantitatively depending on the equipment available to the lab.  Finally these ELISA based techniques are based upon over four-decades of published science and can be easily modified and developed for new and emergent pathogens.

The patients immune response when combined with probabilistic peptide maps of the T and B cell response can be used to develop additional techniques.  After the ELISA protocols are developed it is the hope that a protein microarray or a similar technique can be developed to identify regions that stimulate patient immune response.  This immune response can then be modeled to develop novel therapies for the vaccination and treatment of COVID-19 along with emergent pathogens.  The mathematical modeling of both the infection and the immune response to aid in the correct targeting of high risk persons.  However, these techniques are with out value unless they are provided free of charge to the world.  Therefore all protocols, data, mathematical model and programs will be licensed under GPLv3 (fsf.org) or Creative Commons-ShareAlike (CC-SA) for all to use, modify and develop.
